Docs11444/azure reorg (#32186)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/azure-advanced-configuration.md

  - Query Azure metadata APIs and use the responses to [generate useful metrics in Datadog][2] for insights that Azure Monitor does not support

The Azure APIs used and data collected are identical regardless of whether you use the standard or Azure Native version of the integration.

The diagram below outlines the process and resulting architecture of the Azure integration configuration described in [Getting Started with Azure][1].

{{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_architecture_and_configuration/app_registration_integration_setup.png" alt="Diagram of the app registration integration setup" >}}

After this is completed, data collection begins automatically. The app registration allows Datadog to [request a token from Azure Active Directory][3] (AD). Datadog uses this token as the authorization for API calls to various Azure APIs, to discover resources within the scope provided, and collect data. This continuous process runs with two-minute intervals by default, and is used to discover and collect data from your Azure environment. The data collection process is pictured below.

> {{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_architecture_and_configuration/app_registration_metric_collection.png" alt="Diagram of the App Registration integration setup" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_architecture_and_configuration/app_registration_metric_collection.png" alt="Workflow diagram showing Azure metric collection process: Datadog backend reads configuration, authenticates through service principal to Azure Active Directory, collects subscription and resource metadata using RBAC permissions, filters resources by tags, then retrieves metrics from Azure Monitor for ingestion into Datadog." >}}
```

## Log collection

The diagram below provides a reference architecture for forwarding logs from Azure to Datadog, as described in the [Event Hub log forwarding guide][5].

> {{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_architecture_and_configuration/manual_log_forwarding.png" alt="Diagram of the manual log forwarding setup" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_architecture_and_configuration/manual_log_forwarding.png" alt="Architecture diagram showing manual Azure log forwarding setup across two regions where Azure resources use diagnostic settings to send logs through Event Hubs and Log Forwarding Functions to Datadog Logs Ingestion." >}}
```
